TESTING.md, before:

# Testing Framework Documentation

This document describes the testing setup for the MIDI Song Creation Tool.

## Test Structure

The tests are organized into three main categories:

1. **Unit Tests**: For testing individual functions, classes, and components in isolation.
2. **Integration Tests**: For testing API endpoints and how components work together.
3. **End-to-End Tests**: For testing the whole application flow with Cypress.

## Setup

### Jest Setup

- `setupTests.js` - Configures Jest and provides global test utilities like mock components and `@testing-library/jest-dom` assertions.
- `jest.config.js` - Main Jest configuration file that specifies test environment, module mappings, and other settings.

### Test Utils

- `tests/test-utils.js` - Custom render functions for React Testing Library that provide context providers and other test utilities.
- `__mocks__/fileMock.js` - Mock for file imports.

### Database Testing

- `tests/integration/testSetup.js` - Sets up an in-memory MongoDB database for integration tests using `mongodb-memory-server`.

## Running Tests

To run tests, use the following npm scripts:

```bash
# Run all tests
npm test

# Run unit tests only
npm run test:unit

# Run integration tests only
npm run test:integration

# Run tests with coverage
npm run test:coverage

# Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:watch

# Run end-to-end tests
npm run test:e2e
```

## Best Practices

1. **Unit Tests**:
   - Keep tests focused on a single unit of functionality
   - Use mocks for external dependencies
   - For React components, use the custom render functions from `test-utils.js`

2. **Integration Tests**:
   - Tests that depend on the database should use the in-memory database setup
   - Create test data in `beforeEach` blocks and clean up in `afterEach`
   - Import the app after the database is connected for proper initialization

3. **General Tips**:
   - Write descriptive test names that explain what is being tested
   - Use appropriate assertions from Jest and Testing Library
   - Keep tests independent from each other

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter failing tests:

1. Check that component tests are using the custom render function from `test-utils.js`
2. Verify that API tests are properly setting up the in-memory database
3. For React component tests, ensure that required contexts are provided
4. Check for timing issues in asynchronous tests

Commit message:

Update testing documentation with mocking strategy

TESTING.md, after:

# Testing Framework Documentation

This document describes the testing setup for the MIDI Song Creation Tool.

## Test Structure

The tests are organized into three main categories:

1. **Unit Tests**: For testing individual functions, classes, and components in isolation.
2. **Integration Tests**: For testing API endpoints and how components work together.
3. **End-to-End Tests**: For testing the whole application flow with Cypress.

## Setup

### Jest Setup

- `setupTests.js` - Configures Jest and provides testing utilities like the HTML5 Canvas mock and `@testing-library/jest-dom` assertions.
- `jest.config.js` - Main Jest configuration file that specifies test environment, module mappings, and other settings.

### Mocks

- `__mocks__/src/client/context/SessionContext.js` - Provides a mock implementation of the SessionContext module for component tests.
- `__mocks__/fileMock.js` - Mock for file imports.

### Test Utils

- `tests/test-utils.js` - Custom render functions for React Testing Library that provide context providers and other test utilities.

### Database Testing

- `tests/integration/testSetup.js` - Sets up an in-memory MongoDB database for integration tests using `mongodb-memory-server`.

## Running Tests

To run tests, use the following npm scripts:

```bash
# Run all tests
npm test

# Run unit tests only
npm run test:unit

# Run integration tests only
npm run test:integration

# Run tests with coverage
npm run test:coverage

# Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:watch

# Run end-to-end tests
npm run test:e2e
```

## Best Practices

1. **Unit Tests**:
   - Keep tests focused on a single unit of functionality
   - Use mocks for external dependencies
   - For React components, use the custom render function from `test-utils.js`
   - When testing components that use SessionContext, you can override the mock context with `useSessionContext.mockReturnValue(customContext)`

2. **Integration Tests**:
   - Tests that depend on the database should use the in-memory database setup
   - Create test data in `beforeEach` blocks and clean up in `afterEach`
   - Import the app after the database is connected for proper initialization

3. **General Tips**:
   - Write descriptive test names that explain what is being tested
   - Use appropriate assertions from Jest and Testing Library
   - Keep tests independent from each other
   - Use mock implementations with care - only mock what's necessary

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter failing tests:

1. Check that component tests are using the custom render function from `test-utils.js`
2. Verify that API tests are properly setting up the in-memory database
3. For React component tests, ensure that required contexts are provided
4. Check for timing issues in asynchronous tests
5. If you get module resolution errors with mocks, check the moduleNameMapper in jest.config.js

## Mocking Strategy

We use Jest's module mocking system to mock certain parts of the application:

1. **Automatic Mocks**: The SessionContext is automatically mocked for all tests
2. **Manual Mocks**: You can override mock implementations in individual test files when needed
3. **Component-specific Mocks**: For specific tests, you can provide custom mock implementations

This approach allows us to isolate components and test them independently without relying on the actual implementation of their dependencies.
